>> Burke Holland: All right, well, my
name is Burke Holland and from Nashville.
I work at Microsoft and
I work on the Azure team at Microsoft.
My job is to make sure that
the JavaScript experience inside of
Azure is as good as it can possibly be.
So this is what I do.
I go out and I talk about JavaScript and
I talk about VS code a lot because we
make VS code, and I love the editor.
And so today we are going to spend
a substantial amount of time
talking about nothing but VS code.
Now, before we do this, everybody needs
to have some things installed for
this whole day to go as
smoothly as it should.
And for you to leave with a smile on your
face, one of those things you'll need is
git, you wanna make sure that you have Git
installed for our source control module.
You're going to need to have Node.js,
or Node, or
whatever the proper way to say that is,
installed.
We're running a lot of JavaScript today,
and
JavaScript doesn't run as well
without Node, as it does with it.
You're going to need Docker.
Yes, we're gonna do Docker and
containers today.
We're gonna learn a little
bit about containers, and
then we're going to use them.
And then there's an extension pack called
VS Code Can Do That that has all of
the extensions that we're going
to be using in today's workshop.
So by installing this one extension pack,
you get everything that you need for
the whole day which is pretty cool.
Also shameless plug, I have a show
called Five Things on YouTube.
Fun fact,
it is the most popular show in the less
than a dozen subscribers category.
So thank you, mom, for
creating 12 YouTube accounts.
All right, let's get right into it then.
Today, what I want to do is
I want us to push the limits
of what VS code should
sanely be able to do.
I was at Build in 2015 when
they announced the VS code, and
I thought, at that time,
another text editor?
Do we really need, is that what the world
needs right now is another text editor?
I feel like this is a solved problem.
But what we found is that there
is definitely a need for VS Code.
It's become the most popular
editor among web developers and
JavaScript developers, and
that's why we're gathered here today.
So what I would like for
you to do today is picture in
your mind a dial on a dashboard.
And that dial, you can turn it
from all the way from one, and
then if you turn it all the way up,
it goes to?
>> Speaker 2: 11.
>> Burke Holland: 11, that is correct.
Dials always go to 11.
So what we're gonna do today
is we're gonna start at 1,
and 1 is text editor in VS code, and
that's what it does out of the box.
And then what we're gonna do is
today's we're just gonna crank on
this dial all day until we
get it close to 11, and
11 it would be IDE or
Integrated Development Environment.
And that's where you're doing
everything inside of VS code.
All parts of your development
workflow are in VS code, and
we're eventually gonna put your entire
development environment inside of VS code,
which is kind of a crazy thing.
So, assuming that everybody has
already cloned the repo here,
you can follow along with this Gitbook.
What we're gonna do is I am
going to do the exercises.
I'm gonna run through and
teach you a little bit.
And then we're going on break, and you can
go through the exercises yourself, and
you can follow along.
So what I would recommend is that you
open the projects as I begin one of
these segments here so
that any dependencies that need to be
installed can be installed
while I'm talking.
Specifically npm install at the exercise
tells you that you need to run it.
>> Burke Holland: The other thing here is,
that you need to know,
is that a lot of times the instructions
are gonna have you open VS code from
a command prompt, like this.
So, if we come over here, if I wanted
to open VS code on this folder,
I can do code and then dot, and now
we'll open VS code on this folder here.
If this doesn't work for you,
it's because code, the code command,
is not in your path.
In order to get it there, you need to open
the command palette which is Command or
Control Shift P, and you're gonna say,
you can just search for path I believe,
and Shall Command,
Install Code Command in path.
So you just wanna do that.
So just know if you hit code, and
then .enter command prompt and
it tells you code is not about command.
That's why if you're on Windows,
you may need to reboot.
I'm not entirely sure, but just try
those things if none of that is working.
Another bit of a heads up here, as we go
along, you're gonna see these prompts
sometimes when you open an exercise where
it says that there's a workspace file and
do you wanna open the workspace?
The answer to that question is always yes,
you want to open the workspace.
If I didn't want you to, I would not
have put a workspace file in there.
What this does is, it opens a workspace
that allows you to load multiple projects
inside of VS code at once, but those
projects are treated as separate projects,
not one project into the same folder.
So they have their own configuration
settings, their own debug settings.
There's a Start folder, which is where
you're gonna start, and there's a solution
folder should you happen to just give
up and want to see the running example.
Also, when you run a project,
most of these projects we're
gonna run within npm start
command inside of the terminal or
the integrated terminal in VS code,
your call.
If you do that, and it tells you
that it can't run on port 3000, so
it's gonna run on a different one,
3001 or 3002.
Or just that it can't run it means that
you have some other example that you've
been doing so far running on port 3000.
And sometimes it's hard
to tell where that is.
And so I've included some commands down
here that you need to be aware of.
This top one is for my Mac/Linux people.
This is how you find and
processes that are running on 3000, and
this is how you kill them here.
So you can just go ahead and kill any
processes that you've got without having
to go back to figure out what's
running and what's the problem.
And then for Windows, it's here.
I'm just gonna be honest,
I haven't actually tried this so
I don't know if it works.
But it came from Stack Overflow,
so it's gotta be right.
Okay.
>> Burke Holland: And
then one more thing before we get in here.
There are some essential
keyboard shortcuts that
you're going to want to know.
One of them is toggle
the side bar in VS code.
Another one is open the command pallet,
another one's file switcher,
another one's the terminal,
and the other one's Settings.
So these are essential shortcuts that you
need to be aware of before I hop into
VS code, and then once I get in
there you'll see me use them and
you'll know which ones I'm doing.
Our agenda today is as follows.
We're gonna start by customizing the
editors, you sort of follow along here.
What we're gonna do is
we're gonna theme VS code.
VS code is your house
you live in your editor.
You don't want to live in
a house with no furniture and
no artwork unless you're Steve Jobs,
and you're not Steve Jobs.
So put some furniture and
put some artwork in your house,
just makes it more enjoyable to be there.
Then we're going to cover
some productivity tricks.
I'm just gonna show you the things
that I think will make you most
productive in VS Code.
Then we're gonna do navigation and
refactoring, I wanna show you the best
ways that I think there are to
move around inside of VS Code and
the best ways to refactor.
When we say refactor, what we're basically
talking about is changing existing code.
Code systems are complex,
things are either tightly coupled,
either intentionally or unintentionally,
and we can't simply edit lines of code
because then that breaks things
further down in the system.
So, we want to talk about how
VS code helps us do that.
And then we're gonna go into debugging.
And this is where we really start
to turn the dial towards IDE, and
away from text editor.
This is probably the densest part
of the workshop, just a heads up.
Debugging configurations can be difficult,
but by the time we get through this
section you will understand very well
what a debug configuration can do.
And you'll understand where to go to look
to figure out how to create one, okay?
And then we're gonna talk about Docker.
For the uninitiated on Docker,
don't worry,
I'm gonna go through and
give you a very quick intro to Docker.
And then we're gonna use Docker, and
then we're gonna use Docker behind
the scenes to do some really cool stuff.
Then we're gonna look at something called
remote development where I'm gonna show
you how to take an entire development
environment, put it in VS code and
then put it in GitHub.
So that anybody can run
your project without
having to install any dependencies.
Then we're gonna talk about data.
Most applications have data.
I talked to people sometimes and
they say, I'm just a front end developer,
I don't ever touch a database.
And I think how can that be?
How can that be?
How do you have that luxury?
Everybody should know at some level,
how to deal with data,
even if it's just casually,
that's what we're gonna do in this module.
And then lastly, we're gonna talk
about everybody's favorite subject,
because there's nothing you're going to
want to talk about more at the end of this
day, that source control, so exciting.
What is exciting though is that if you use
Get and you're like me, and you only know
a few commands after working with it for
10 years, it's okay, that's everybody.
And so what we're gonna do is just cover
some of the most common workflows for
get inside of VS Code, and see how
much easier that can make your life.
Okay, I think we've covered
all of the housekeeping here.
Now, when we're talking about VS code,
VS Code comes in two flavors,
you have two flavors to choose from.
There is stable VS Code which
is this blue icon here,
if I pull this up again,
see the blue icon, that's stable.
And then there is the Insiders' VS code,
which looks like this.
Insiders is kind of the canary.
So if you're familiar with Chrome Canary,
that's Insiders.
If you have Insiders,
you're gonna get the latest version of
VS code before it drops and stable.
So you're basically testing.
You see that little gear
over there with a 1 on it?
I have an update.
I updated yesterday, okay?
So if you have Insiders,
you're gonna update a lot.
Most of the people that I work
with at Microsoft run Insiders.
I do not, I run stable.
I was the kid who went down
slides on his belly feet first,
like holding on to the side
slowly going down.
So I am not, I'm very risk averse.
I like things to be stable so
I use stable but you can use Insiders.
I'm gonna start out in
Insiders this morning though,
because I want my VS Code to look like
your VS Code if you've just installed it.